Welcome back.
It's time to sort some erase.
Let's grab this function put it at the very end because hopefully it'll work at the very end.
And
start writing our code we'll start off by first defining the function called merge sorted arrays.
It's going to take the first parameter which is the first array.
Then the second parameter which is the secondary I'm going to first define some variables that we're
going to use throughout the function.
The first one will be a constant which is merged array which will be our answer.
For now it's going to be an empty array and we might as well just make sure that we return this merged
array at the end hopefully it all works and we can populate this with these two arrays now in here.
I want to grab the array one item just for reference and this is going to be our very first array item
so this simply has the zero item here.
Now our first array
and then we'll do the same thing array to item
which is going to grab the number four from you.
Now the very first thing I like doing in a function is checking for some sort of an input making sure
that everything
works.
I'm going to spare you the time of me doing this because you should have an idea of how to check whether
it's an array whether you have two parameters but the one input that I think is worth checking is what
if we have something like this where the second array is just an empty right.
In our case we can just return the first array because while it's already sorted we're still merging
the two raised by the other array doesn't have anything.
And that's the same if this first array was just empty as well so to avoid any extra work.
Let's check for those conditions so that right away we can give out the answer and make our function
more efficient.
In those cases.
So I can just do an if statement I'll say array want length if that is equals to zero.
So if first array is empty.
Just simply return the secondary
and we can do the same for the other case if array to length is empty then we can just return the first
array nice and simple but now let's get into the harder topic which is what happens if both of these
arrays.
I feel like they are now well just to change things up because I've been using the for loops for a while
I'll use the while loop in JavaScript and this simply says loop through the items while a condition
is met in our case I'm going to say while there is an array one item or there is an array to item
do something.
And remember these variables are simply for now the first item in each one of the arrays.
And by the way if you're wondering why sometimes I use cost sometimes I use left will cost means that
once I assign this variable to this array I can't modify it.
I can't say merged array equals to two.
It's going to give me a warning because it's a constant I can add things to the array but I can't change
this reference to the array on the other hand let allows me to do that so later on I can say array one
item equals two something new like array one in the index of one.
So that is why we're using this syntax.
It's a new E6 syntax in JavaScript.
All right.
So while we have things and the arrays we want to first do a bit of a check.
Let's say if array one item is less than array to item.
That is if 0 is less than 4.
We want to add to the merged array empty array.
We want to say push and we'll push the first item in the array.
So we're going to push 0 and because we've now pushed the 0 item into this array.
We don't really need to worry about 0 anymore so we can just simply say array one item is now going
to equal a rate one at index of
right.
Because now we want to move to array item.
That's over here at index of 1 which is 3 so that we can compare 3 with 4.
Now we want to increment this every time and because we're doing a loop here.
Let's convert this into an index that is high and incremented ie plus plus and at the top.
Over here we can just say for the beginning that I is going to equal 1 so that way as we loop through
this this is going to increment with I plus plus so that is increment by 1 so that we can go 0 3 4 31
and by the way I just noticed that I can't spell.
There should be array over here.
All right.
Now that's the case.
When array one item is less than array to the list to the other side.
If array 2 item is less than array 1 we now merged into the array.
Array 2 item because if array one item is not less than a rate 2 item we don't even need to add a condition
here we know that array one item is greater than the array two items.
In which case we can just add the second item.
So that is we add this item instead.
And again we want to do the exact same thing that we did with the first item or the first array that
is the array to item is now going to equal array to and we need a different index of this.
We can't use the same one rate so we can just say this is going to be J and up.
We simply do the same thing.
J is going to equal to 1.
So once we figured out the 0 index items we can then move on to index of 1 then index of 2 index of
3.
So on and so forth.
Now let's check this code and see if it works.
If I run this Oh you'll see that my browser just crashed.
And that's because I have a setting on rebel that I.D. which allows for.
Well for this to happen most likely if you're using the default settings here it will give you a warning.
But let's go back
why did that happen.
This is why it's always a good idea to go step by step and make sure things work.
We did a lot of coding here without actually testing if any of this works.
So good note here is to pause every once in a while and just test your assumptions log out the answers
in this case we missed a critical point that is in this check over here if we do the while loop as long
as Array one item or array two items are populated and we check here.
If array one item is less than array to item but the problem here is that we could have a case where
one of these because we're using or could be undefined or we reached the end of the line in order to
account for that.
The critical thing to do here is to always know how your code is running so let's do a console door
lock here say array one item then array two item.
Let's see what we get throughout the loop.
If I run this it's going to crash again and we won't be able to see our logs.
So I'm just going to write down the correct vision here and then explain why we did what we did.
I'm going to just say if array 2 item
if the array to item doesn't exist.
So if we have undefined it's going to turn this into true so we run through this.
Why is that.
Let's have a look.
Notice what we just locked here.
We've logged array one item then array to item.
So this is why we're comparing throughout our loops.
0 4 then 3 and 4 then forum 4 then 4 and 6 then thirty one and six thirty one and thirty and then thirty
one and on define.
You see here how the second array item becomes undefined and in order for us to bypass this undefined
which becomes on defined here and we use the exclamation mark in javascript to turn this into a true
statement.
So it turns into this so that we can add the thirty one in array one into the final slot of the array.
Now if this was like this and I run
we get undefined for the first array however because we're doing this second check which is is array
one item less than array to item and in our case if we do undefined less than six which is what we're
doing here in this comparison I run this and let's console the log this see what the answer is I get
false.
So even though in this time around array one is undefined because we've gone through it because this
statement is false we go to the else statement and fill the rest of the array with six and 13 or 30
which come from array to
I wanted to point this out to you because this may now be the cleanest solution right.
I mean looking at this code just think about what I had to explain and draw out for you to fully understand
how this works.
And I did this for a specific reason during the interview.
If you have to explain things in detail like this and write things out well perhaps there's a better
way of writing it.
Because an interviewer is going to get confused as to what this means then what this means and it doesn't
really read like English does it.
Ideally these functions are really really nice to just read so perhaps I can take this part of the function
and convert it into its own function and just name this has should push first array item and this should
be should push array to item and by extracting out these pieces of code into their own little function
you can clean out this answer and make it more readable and interviewers are going to like that.
Now during an interview you may not have time to do so but you can let the interviewer know how you
wrote the solution and you understand that this is probably not the most readable solution.
And this is what you would do to clean it up.
You don't have to actually code it as long as you tell them and you understand where you would improve
things that in an interview his ice is just as good as you actually coding it that way.
All right.
Looks like this is working.
If I do an empty array here I see that it's still working.
Our answer is looking at.
Hope you got this far.
I'll see you in the next video by.